My position is that one should not hang little thieves while letting the big ones run free.
Someday, a German national court of law will have to condemn and execute ten thousand
or so of those organizers and criminals who were responsible for the November treason and
all the consequences that followed. This would set an example and be a lesson for the petty
traitors who revealed arms locations once and for all.
Because of these considerations, I forbade any participation in secret organizations and
repeatedly emphasized the need to guard the S. A. Storm Troop itself from giving even the
appearance of such an organization. In those years, I kept the National Socialist movement
far away from any experiments where those who carried out these plans were mostly made
up of gloriously idealistic-minded young Germans. They would become the victims of their
own deeds and their sacrifice would not improve the fate of their Fatherland at all.
If the S.A. could not be a militant defense organization or a secret society, then these
conclusions result: 1. Its training must not be military style, but must focus on the aims of
the Party. In promoting physical health of the members, the chief emphasis was not to be
on military drills, but more on sports. Boxing and Ju-Jitsu have always seemed to me more
important than any sort of rifle training, which is much less vigorous. If the German nation is
given six million athletically-trained bodies, all of which are excited with a fanatical love for
their country and all of them trained to the highest pitch of aggressive spirit, then a national
state will have the ability to create an army in less than two years time if necessary. At least
it would be possible 2. if a basic army was already at hand which they could be integrated
into. But, the situation today means that this basic army stock can only be supplied by the
Reichswehr (National Defense military resulting from the Treaty of Versailles ) and not from
a militant defense league which is mired in its own inadequacy. The physical conditioning
will make the individual conscious of his own superiority and give him the confidence that is
always found through the awareness of one’s own power. Also, this training will give him
the athletic skills which will serve as a weapon for defense of the movement.
1. The S.A. uniform is recognizable to everyone. However, in order to prevent any confusion
of the S.A. with a secret organization, from the very beginning we used the great number of
its members to make it clear how it was used by the movement and we maintained that it
must be well known to the public. It must not meet in secret, but must march in the open
air. This would absolutely destroy all legends about a “secret organization”. We had to
extinguish any desire the members may have to participate in small conspiracies; it must,
from the beginning, be completely indoctrinated with the great idea of the movement and
be completely devoted to the task of representing this idea. It must be so completely
trained that from its inception, the horizon of every member would be expanded and the
individual would see his mission not in the disposal of some smaller or greater rogue, but in
his participation in building a new National-Socialist State of the people. In this way, the
struggle against the present State was elevated far above the actions of petty revenge and
conspiracy to the magnitude of a philosophical war of annihilation against Marxism and its
structures.
2. The formation of the S.A., including the choices for its uniform and equipment, was not
modeled after the old army, but decided by its own purpose —they were chosen to meet
the needs of the task at hand.
These views guided me in 1920 to 1921 as I gradually instilled them into the young
organization. By mid-summer of 1922, we enjoyed the success of having an impressive
number of groups consisting of one hundred men each. Then, in the late autumn of 1922,
one after the other of these groups received their special distinguishing uniform.
There were three events that were supremely important for the further development of the
S. A.: 1. The first was the great general demonstration against the Law for the Protection of
the Republic, which was held by all patriotic associations in the late summer of 1922 on the
Konigsplatz (King’s Place, an open square) in Munich. The patriotic associations of Munich at
that time issued a proclamation calling for a protest against the introduction of the law
through a gigantic demonstration in Munich. Even the National-Socialist movement was
going to take part in it. The closed ranks of the Party marched in six groups of one hundred
each, which were followed by the political sections of the party. In the parade itself, two
bands marched and fifteen flags were carried along. When the National Socialists
assembled, the great square was already half full but there were no flags for any other
group. Our arrival caused the release of an enormous amount of passion. I myself had the
honor of speaking as one of the orators before the crowd of about sixty thousand.